1. Create a thread using the Thread class to reverse every word in a string independently  
2. Create a thread using the Thread class to count vowels in each word of a sentence using multiple threads  
3. Create a thread using the Thread class to rotate a square matrix 90 degrees clockwise  
4. Create a thread using the Thread class to transpose a matrix in parallel  
5. Create a thread using the Thread class to find all palindromic substrings in a string concurrently  
6. Create a thread using the Thread class to count frequency of each character in a string using threads  
7. Create a thread using the Thread class to perform row-wise addition of two matrices concurrently  
8. Create a thread using the Thread class to perform matrix multiplication using multiple threads for rows  
9. Create a thread using the Thread class to check anagram status between multiple string pairs  
10. Create a thread using the Thread class to find the longest word in each sentence of a string array  
11. Create a thread using the Thread class to find common elements in multiple integer arrays  
12. Create a thread using the Thread class to compute the diagonal sum of a matrix in separate threads  
13. Create a thread using the Thread class to reverse an array in parallel  
14. Create a thread using the Thread class to count digits, letters, and special characters in strings  
15. Create a thread using the Thread class to sort each row of a matrix using threads  
16. Create a thread using the Thread class to identify all prime numbers in an array concurrently  
17. Create a thread using the Thread class to interleave two strings using multiple threads  
18. Create a thread using the Thread class to search multiple substrings in a long string using threads  
19. Create a thread using the Thread class to validate balanced parentheses in multiple strings  
20. Create a thread using the Thread class to capitalize the first letter of each word in a string array concurrently  

21. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to reverse every word in a string independently  
22. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to count vowels in each word of a sentence using multiple threads  
23. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to rotate a square matrix 90 degrees clockwise  
24. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to transpose a matrix in parallel  
25. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to find all palindromic substrings in a string concurrently  
26. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to count frequency of each character in a string using threads  
27. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to perform row-wise addition of two matrices concurrently  
28. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to perform matrix multiplication using multiple threads for rows  
29. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to check anagram status between multiple string pairs  
30. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to find the longest word in each sentence of a string array  
31. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to find common elements in multiple integer arrays  
32. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to compute the diagonal sum of a matrix in separate threads  
33. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to reverse an array in parallel  
34. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to count digits, letters, and special characters in strings  
35. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to sort each row of a matrix using threads  
36. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to identify all prime numbers in an array concurrently  
37. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to interleave two strings using multiple threads  
38. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to search multiple substrings in a long string using threads  
39. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to validate balanced parentheses in multiple strings  
40. Create a thread using the Runnable interface to capitalize the first letter of each word in a string array concurrently


https://meet.google.com/yrf-iqsu-bqb