1. Write a Java program to append the specified element to the end of a linked list.

2. Write a Java program to iterate through all elements in a linked list.

3. Write a Java program to iterate through all elements in a linked list starting at the specified position.

4. Write a Java program to iterate a linked list in reverse order.

5. Write a Java program to insert the specified element at the specified position in the linked list.

6. Write a Java program to insert elements into the linked list at the first and last positions.

7. Write a Java program to insert the specified element at the front of a linked list.

8. Write a Java program to insert the specified element at the end of a linked list.

9. Write a Java program to insert some elements at the specified position into a linked list.

10. Write a Java program to get the first and last occurrence of the specified elements in a linked list.

11. Write a Java program to display elements and their positions in a linked list.

12. Write a Java program to remove a specified element from a linked list.

13. Write a Java program to remove the first and last elements from a linked list.

14. Write a Java program to remove all elements from a linked list.

15. Write a Java program that swaps two elements in a linked list.

16. Write a Java program to shuffle elements in a linked list.

17. Write a Java program to join two linked lists.

18. Write a Java program to copy a linked list to another linked list.

19. Write a Java program to remove and return the first element of a linked list.

20. Write a Java program to retrieve, but not remove, the first element of a linked list.

21. Write a Java program to retrieve, but not remove, the last element of a linked list.

22. Write a Java program to check if a particular element exists in a linked list.

23. Write a Java program to convert a linked list to an array list.

24. Write a Java program to compare two linked lists.

25. Write a Java program to check if a linked list is empty or not.

26. Write a Java program to replace an element in a linked list.